there are more good guitar Pickers per
square inch in Nashville than anywhere
else in the world
well that's because this were the best
the best come to play with the best
so it's only fitting that Nashville
should behold two legendary guitar
company Gibson
the name itself Gibson is synonymous
with excellence and no wonder the folks
who make Gibson guitars while they're
artisans and artists they pour their own
love of music into every single one of
their instruments Gibson guitars are so
expressive so beautiful so full of
richness and character but the people
who play them talk about them as if they
were human for celebrated
singer-songwriter Steve Earle that love
affair with Gibson guitars began early
and his love first sight the first
really good guitar I ever had was a
Gibson lgo and my grandmother gave it
the brand-new in 71 my grandmother gave
it to me as a bribe to get me to go back
to high school because that dropped out
and I got the guitar I stayed in school
look come on carried the stick and that
I failed now the album that lost his
career was recorded on a borrowed Gibson
I recorded every track on guitar town on
that guitar and then refused to return
it and they asked for it back I just
said you're gonna have to make a deal
with me for this one and I played that
guitar / I played it for five or six
years and it's now in the Country Music
Hall of Fame across town from the Hall
of Fame is the Gibson's showcase where
popular musicians like Joe Diffie and
dan seals often play Dan so fond of his
Gibson guitar he wrote it into a ballot
old guitar friend I understand
can your smooth the wrinkles and I sold
you know it's really odd it's hard sing
to you are they going they they make you
feel good inside and they're homogeneous
they're they're made out of a wood which
every one of them is they're about you
right but it if you make them exactly
like they're still small nuances that
are the woods different yeah
and that would mostly mahogany maple and
rosewood makes its first stop right here
Gibson rough milk
[Music]
today they're making the legendary Les
Paul supreme as air guitarists
everywhere know it was Les Paul who
turned an electrified guitar into the
electric guitar and showed us how to
play it
[Music]
several guitar bodies are carved at a
time manager Tom Montgomery showed us
how
so
that wheel goes down or up the blades
are the same thing I don't
do that
I could stop by and healthy time
[Music]
other parts of the guitar like the neck
or more about art than science he's not
even using a guide disease eyeballing
that whole thing
that's that's what I that's a work of
art Ezra and all of his colleagues here
are carrying on a tradition that's more
than a hundred years old
[Music]
Orville Gibson was a Michigan shoe clerk
whose true passion was the mandolin
he kept searching but could never find
an instrument capable of making the kind
of music he wanted to hear finally he
decided to fill the mandolin of his own
and it was perfect so you had the top
slice at time the person turned his hand
to making superior banjos and then came
guitars yeah Orville Gibson revitalized
the American music industry and has
inspired millions of musicians
back in the factory the next step of
guitar baking process is well underway
know this isn't some strange
mummification ritual or a first aid
lesson it's actually how the guitars are
bound while the glue dries
next comes sanding mat branch shows off
his technique the same one he used for
guitars played by Guns and Roses and Bon
Jovi very nicely on baby's bottom ah
then Jimmy Wright sets the neck on the
body the way you shaded them fit you can
tell by the time the glue dries it's
gonna be like one solid piece of wood
here Brenda Reed was nice enough to
teach me how to wax the frets the metal
ridges on the fingerboard just a smidgen
off
thank you real well
Thank You Brenda now we'd have a shot an
application for you Oh can you work
second
gives and finishes are as famous as the
guitars themselves
[Music]
here airbrush artist Rebecca green
dresses up a Les Paul supreme the cherry
sunburst combo of red and yellow
so we
I think my favorite part of the whole
process was watching buffer
extraordinaire rich Coleman the man
loves his work
[Music]
how long it take you to get the dance
yeah
workmanship
as it beats it
J Thompson here not only inserts and
Tunes all the strings he also gets the
pleasure of testing the end product no
guitar makes it out of here until J or
one of his compadres says it's a gibson
apparently this one's good to go you get
paid to do this what a joy it must be to
go to work every day knowing that what
you do in your small corner of the world
is destined to bring timeless pleasure
to millions of people
nothing could be more rewarding